---
layout: post
title: Who am I?
thumbnail: /images/uploads/download.jpg
banner: /images/uploads/bannertest.jpg
---
## Hi, I'm Eve.

I'm no one special, just your stock-standard 27 year old, and the face behind Previvor Tales.

When I was 16 years old, I was diagnosed with Lynch syndrome - a hereditary predisposition to a number of different cancers. This means, I have a much higher risk of developing cancer (including bowel, endometrial and ovarian cancer), at a much younger age than the general population.

### So how did I come to be diagnosed?

At 38 years of age, my dad was diagnosed with Stage III bowel cancer. A pretty uncommon diagnosis for such a young person. But this didn’t surprise him, as much as did to me and my brother. It turns out that his father, my grandfather also received a bowel cancer diagnosis at a young age – he was 42 years old at the time.

I was 14 years old when my dad was diagnosed with bowel cancer, and as a family, we survived it – together <3 It involved lots of medication and pretty awful times, but we are closer (and stronger) for it.

After dad finished his treatment, he was delivered the news that his early onset cancer was due to a genetic mutation – called Lynch syndrome. Shortly after, I turned 16 and was tested. My results showed I was positive for the mutation, and thankfully, my brother was not.

**I’m 27 years old now, and totally cancer-free. **

I feel constantly grateful for the knowledge and power that I have, that my family, before me, did not. 

## So, Lynch syndrome was it?

You'd be forgiven for never having heard of Lynch syndrome. It's not particularly well known. Which is shame, because it's actually far more common than you would probably think.

In fact, it has been estimated that only 5% of people who have Lynch syndrome have actually been diagnosed!

That's pretty startling (and completely unacceptable) statistic for a condition that has some possibly life-changing consequences.

### So, why start Previvor Tales?

My Lynch syndrome diagnosis, along with my dad having had cancer, changed my life. I spent a lot of time studying at university about cancer, volunteered with charities, hosted fundraising events and basically wanted to be involved however and whenever I could.

That has led me here. To this website, to this blog.

Because, [in reality, in our world today](https://duckduckgo.com/?q=Error%3A+Address+already+in+use+-+bind(2)&atb=v116-5_h&ia=qa) - this is where the magic happens. Online and on social media. 

_And I'm hoping, this can be the start of something good._

**I  started Previvor Tales in response to two big problems I believe need addressing:**

1. Support!
2. Test
3. Thing 
4. When I was diagnosed with Lynch syndrome, I was on my own. I had my family, but do you think that any of my year 11 friends had any clue what it meant to be told "you tested positive' for this genetic mutation. Or even now…if it weren't for my volunteering, I wouldn't have met anyone else affected by this.

> And this is something I want to change. I don't want anyone else to feel as alone as I did.

I look at so many incredible people doing wonderful things for cancer awareness, for people affected by BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutation and think to myself…wow,

* how incredible that these wonderful support networks, nation.. Exist. A place to feel at home, a place to feel understood, a place to connect. And then I feel saddened that there isn't quite
* anything like that for Lynch syndrome (and some of the other hereditary cancer mutations) …yet. So I hope thing can be the start of something. 
* Whatever your mutation - MSH2, MSH6, BRCA1, FAP, CAD2, you are so welcome here. I'm no medical expert and certainly not a 
* counsellor, but I'm a human being, 
* who is also living with this. And I'd always love to chat. Feeling like you have no one? Well you do…you have me! And that means, I also have you (lucky me!) :-)

2. There is an overwhelming lack of awareness about Lynch syndrome. 

**Awareness** = Knowledge\
**Knowledge** = Power\
**Power** = Lives saved

It is believed that 1-5% of bowel cancers ([ref](https://www.cancer.nsw.gov.au/understanding-cancer/cancer-in-nsw/hereditary-cancers/lynch-syndrome)) and 2-5% of endometrial cancers ([ref](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC3693757/)) are as a Lynch syndrome-related. 

Just imagine if those people knew first.

Imagine if they could arm them selves, be proactive, have surveillance, get a kick-ass medical team behind them and a support network.

Lynch syndrome does that. It gives you the chance to do all of those things. To give you hope that your cancer won't slip under the radar, or be diagnosed too late.

I don't believe that anyone should ever die of cancer. EVER.

Lynch syndrome is a magical gift of knowledge, of insight and hopefully, the more that people become aware of this and start to look at their own families and be diagnosed, we can take a step closer toward a world where we know where people can avoid this devastating disease.

So please, now that you're here, take a look around and pretty please - help spread awareness by sharing this page with your friends and family!

Eve <3 x

Connect with Eve

Help raise awareness about Lynch syndrome and share this page

Latest from the blog
